oh man that's what I would I would just
go back I have spent so much time
playing video games in my life and well
I had a good time I had fun I could have
just made so much more progress
seriously I have maxed out every class
and Wow in every single expansion except
for the most recent one where I decided
to really get it together that's a lot
of time that's a lot of time in just
that game and I don't play it just Wow
or it didn't play just wow League of
Legends and dota 2 the game just resets
and you try to do better next time
people live with this strange assumption
that moderation is the mother of all
virtues when the reality is moderation
becomes the excuse for them never
cultivating never developing any virtues
at all this guy sincerely regrets the
hundreds of hours he wasted playing
video games but he refuses to come to
the obvious inexorable conclusion that
he should not play video games at all
and he refuses to recommend to his
audience that they quit playing video
games entirely instead what he seems to
endorse his moderation it's not clear to
me what that really means if you think
that cocaine is something bad and
unhealthy and evil and wrong you're not
going to tell people to be moderate
users of cocaine even if we set aside
the issue of illegalities criminality
danger even if we set aside the health
risks the negative effect on your heart
on various internal organs even if we
set aside the issue of brain damage if
you just look at cocaine and say hey you
know what if you get into using this
cocaine stuff it's gonna lead you into a
life that's kind of reckless heedless
dangerous to yourself and others this is
really gonna have a kind of negative
impact on your character development on
your education on your career in that
simple sense it's bad and evil and wrong
therefore
don't become a moderate drug user
absolutely refused absolutely quit
cocaine today now and for the rest your
life that's the conclusion to come to on
cocaine but you had this guy sitting
here and it's like he can't shake off
this habit of mind you know don't don't
throw the baby out with the bathwater
there is no baby in that bathwater
there's no reason to be moderate here
there's no benefit that's gonna excuse
the compromises you're making and it's
interesting listen to this next little
segment listen to what he has to say he
describes the effect of playing video
games these hundreds of hours as being
like a lion tamer forcing the lion to go
to the hoop is being like you know
training a dog but in the end the dog in
question is not even learning anything
as remotely useful as how to jump
through a hoop to please its master if I
could go back in time and tell myself
one thing it'd probably be to stop
spending so much time on video game stop
levelling up in a video game that's
gonna come out with a sequel and you're
gonna lose all your progress and you're
gonna have to do it again anyways you do
something so that you can get something
so you can do that thing again it's just
a giant circle like in Diablo 3 you get
better gear so that you can kill stuff
faster so that you can get better gear
to kill stuff faster it's just a giant
loop that's what most RPG games are a
lot of people get lost in that
and it's progress that you can't hold on
to and you're living inside the realm of
someone else's rules and constructs in
that you know I would go back in time be
like make progress in life where it
matters Josh things that you can hold on
to things that you can move forward with
instead of these things that get reset
with a patch at some other person's
discretion the next thing I would go
back in time and tell myself would be is
this what you want Josh everyone else
says this is what you're supposed to do
be happy you're supposed to go to
college you're supposed to get a degree
that's in something safe and good that
pays a lot and just will take care of
you and then you'll get a job and you'll
work that job and you'll have a nice
life so what does that mean nice life
does that mean my mortgage is paid every
month but I am miserable what does that
mean I don't know what that means I
didn't ever ask myself that question I
just kept doing what I was supposed to
do I kept going where I was supposed to
go and I kept trying to make myself
happy and it was never it was not it
wasn't it didn't work didn't work we're
using here short clips of a much longer
video to describe the video as a whole
he discusses his experience playing
video games as meaningless
dissatisfactory repetition that he found
enjoyable or challenging or fun
but that he ultimately decided was
vacuous empty self-defeating didn't make
it happy he describes his experience
with University in much the same way
meaningless frustrating repetitious
didn't make him happy and he says many
times that he looks back on it and he
wonders why he never asked himself the
profound questions why he never asked
himself hey what was he really trying to
do here what was he willing to go he
describes his experience in the
workplace sounds like he had a
conventional job in something like
engineering or Electrical Engineering he
got a degree in engineering and got a
job of that kind for just about two
years he describes it in exactly the
same way
profoundly dissatisfactory repetitious
to humanizing but these things are not
parallel in reality the gratification he
had from playing video games the
hundreds of hours he was investing in
playing video games right the sense of
reward or entertainment he was getting
from that it was sustaining the other
elements of his life that otherwise
might have been unsustainable like when
I talked to people about marijuana use
they often claim that the effects of
marijuana are relatively minor you know
compared to heroin or cocaine therefore
shouldn't be taken too seriously one of
the most insidious things about
marijuana is precisely that it can make
unbearable things in your life seem
bearable
right it can prevent you from
challenging yourself from challenging
others from asking the questions you
know what am I doing here what am I
doing with my life why am I making these
compromises so looking at this video as
a whole there's a really interesting
three-way parallel here his total
dissatisfaction with video games his
still dissatisfaction with the
university experience
his total dissatisfaction with the world
of employment that for him was at least
monetarily very satisfactory he very
rapidly bought two different vehicles in
a house he mentioned that the house was
really cheap it's definitely possible
the house cost less than one of the
vehicles in the United States America
that's this quite possible you can get a
cheap house but nevertheless in some
obvious ways his experience with the
university of employment delivered in
exactly the ways that were promised for
many of us that's not the case
but he saw in this ultimately the same
kind of fruitless game as he just
described it here so strangely he feels
that he's struggling to jump through
these hoops you know being held up by
the lion tamer or being held up by the
dog
he feels like he's trying to satisfy
these goals in a reality of someone
else's creation I guess I have some kind
of new goals for myself new things that
I want to do I'd like to make a million
dollars by the time I'm 30
I don't know how am I do it yet so in
the end we have a case study here of a
guy who was disillusioned with video
games but his disillusionment was
narrowly with video games only right
he was disillusioned in the sense that
he thought playing video games would
make him happy and he now realizes that
isn't the path to true happiness he
thought studying hard and I don't know
achieving something university would
make him happy and he was disillusioned
and he thought that was game conclusion
that was not the path to true happiness
all right he had whatever struggles in
the workplace he mentioned that he read
various kind of books about the
philosophy of Management and being an
employee changed his view on these
things he became disillusioned with the
corporate rat race with whatever
professional job he had with whatever
career he had in engineering he decided
that's not the true path to happiness he
never got disillusioned with happiness
itself right it's like someone who's
trying to get high you tried to get high
by huffing glue trying to get high by
drinking vodka trying to get high with
marijuana cocaine LSD and someone who
gets disillusioned with various methods
of getting high but they never get
disillusioned with the high itself he's
yet to sit down and realize it's the
pursuit of happiness itself that's
tragically flawed I hope you don't ever
earn that million dollars you say you're
gonna earn by age 30 and by the way he
was already 29 years old when he made
this video so we'd have less than one
year to make a million dollars I hope
you don't make any terrible regrettable
ethical compromises to try to make it
focus at one year cuz it's not easy to
do if keeping everything aboveboard but
if you do
you're up for the same kind of
disillusionment you can do a whole lot
of things with $1,000,000 but it can't
ever make you happy
[Music]